###########
# Copyright 1991 Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
###########

CFILES		= bjt.c bjtacld.c bjtask.c bjtconv.c bjtdel.c bjtdest.c \
		  bjtdisto.c bjtdset.c bjtgetic.c bjtload.c bjtmask.c \
		  bjtmdel.c bjtmpar.c bjtnoise.c bjtparam.c bjtpzld.c \
		  bjtsacl.c bjtsetup.c bjtsload.c bjtsprt.c bjtsset.c \
		  bjtsupd.c bjttemp.c bjttrunc.c 

COBJS		= bjt.o bjtacld.o bjtask.o bjtconv.o bjtdel.o bjtdest.o \
		  bjtdisto.o bjtdset.o bjtgetic.o bjtload.o bjtmask.o \
		  bjtmdel.o bjtmpar.o bjtnoise.o bjtparam.o bjtpzld.o \
		  bjtsacl.o bjtsetup.o bjtsload.o bjtsprt.o bjtsset.o \
		  bjtsupd.o bjttemp.o bjttrunc.o 

MODULE		= bjt
LIBRARY		= dev
MODULE_TARGET	= $(OBJLIB_DIR)/$(MODULE)

NUMBER		= 2

bjt.o: bjt.c
bjtacld.o: bjtacld.c
bjtask.o: bjtask.c
bjtconv.o: bjtconv.c
bjtdel.o: bjtdel.c
bjtdest.o: bjtdest.c
bjtdisto.o: bjtdisto.c
bjtdset.o: bjtdset.c
bjtgetic.o: bjtgetic.c
bjtload.o: bjtload.c
bjtmask.o: bjtmask.c
bjtmdel.o: bjtmdel.c
bjtmpar.o: bjtmpar.c
bjtnoise.o: bjtnoise.c
bjtparam.o: bjtparam.c
bjtpzld.o: bjtpzld.c
bjtsacl.o: bjtsacl.c
bjtsetup.o: bjtsetup.c
bjtsload.o: bjtsload.c
bjtsprt.o: bjtsprt.c
bjtsset.o: bjtsset.c
bjtsupd.o: bjtsupd.c
bjttemp.o: bjttemp.c
bjttrunc.o: bjttrunc.c
