###########
# Copyright 1991 Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
###########

CFILES		= ind.c indacld.c indask.c inddel.c inddest.c indload.c \
		  indmdel.c indparam.c indpzld.c indsacl.c indsetup.c \
		  indsload.c indsprt.c indsset.c indsupd.c indtrunc.c \
		  mutacld.c mutask.c mutdel.c mutdest.c mutmdel.c mutparam.c \
		  mutpzld.c mutsetup.c mutsprt.c mutsset.c 

COBJS		= ind.o indacld.o indask.o inddel.o inddest.o indload.o \
		  indmdel.o indparam.o indpzld.o indsacl.o indsetup.o \
		  indsload.o indsprt.o indsset.o indsupd.o indtrunc.o \
		  mutacld.o mutask.o mutdel.o mutdest.o mutmdel.o mutparam.o \
		  mutpzld.o mutsetup.o mutsprt.o mutsset.o 

MODULE		= ind
LIBRARY		= dev
MODULE_TARGET	= $(OBJLIB_DIR)/$(MODULE)

NUMBER		= 1

ind.o: ind.c
indacld.o: indacld.c
indask.o: indask.c
inddel.o: inddel.c
inddest.o: inddest.c
indload.o: indload.c
indmdel.o: indmdel.c
indparam.o: indparam.c
indpzld.o: indpzld.c
indsacl.o: indsacl.c
indsetup.o: indsetup.c
indsload.o: indsload.c
indsprt.o: indsprt.c
indsset.o: indsset.c
indsupd.o: indsupd.c
indtrunc.o: indtrunc.c
mutacld.o: mutacld.c
mutask.o: mutask.c
mutdel.o: mutdel.c
mutdest.o: mutdest.c
mutmdel.o: mutmdel.c
mutparam.o: mutparam.c
mutpzld.o: mutpzld.c
mutsetup.o: mutsetup.c
mutsprt.o: mutsprt.c
mutsset.o: mutsset.c
