###########
# Copyright 1991 Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
###########

CFILES		= dio.c dioacld.c dioask.c dioconv.c diodel.c diodest.c \
		  diodisto.c diodset.c diogetic.c dioload.c diomask.c \
		  diomdel.c diompar.c dionoise.c dioparam.c diopzld.c \
		  diosacl.c diosetup.c diosload.c diosprt.c diosset.c \
		  diosupd.c diotemp.c diotrunc.c 

COBJS		= dio.o dioacld.o dioask.o dioconv.o diodel.o diodest.o \
		  diodisto.o diodset.o diogetic.o dioload.o diomask.o \
		  diomdel.o diompar.o dionoise.o dioparam.o diopzld.o \
		  diosacl.o diosetup.o diosload.o diosprt.o diosset.o \
		  diosupd.o diotemp.o diotrunc.o 

MODULE		= dio
LIBRARY		= dev
MODULE_TARGET	= $(OBJLIB_DIR)/$(MODULE)

NUMBER		= 2

dio.o: dio.c
dioacld.o: dioacld.c
dioask.o: dioask.c
dioconv.o: dioconv.c
diodel.o: diodel.c
diodest.o: diodest.c
diodisto.o: diodisto.c
diodset.o: diodset.c
diogetic.o: diogetic.c
dioload.o: dioload.c
diomask.o: diomask.c
diomdel.o: diomdel.c
diompar.o: diompar.c
dionoise.o: dionoise.c
dioparam.o: dioparam.c
diopzld.o: diopzld.c
diosacl.o: diosacl.c
diosetup.o: diosetup.c
diosload.o: diosload.c
diosprt.o: diosprt.c
diosset.o: diosset.c
diosupd.o: diosupd.c
diotemp.o: diotemp.c
diotrunc.o: diotrunc.c
